# Network Traffic Classification using self learning network

Self learning network has attracted a considerable interest from researchers and industries. The community, after many years of research, still faces the problem of building reliable and efficient intrusion detection systems (IDS) that are capable of handling large quantities of data, with changing patterns in real time situations. In this project it classifies network traffic data of binary classification of normal packets and attack packets. Moreover, a taxonomy and survey of artificial neural network classification system is presented based on previous and current works.
This project and survey reviews machine learning techniques and their performance in detecting anomalies. Feature selection which influences the effectiveness of machine learning (ML) IDS is discussed to explain the role of feature selection in the classification and training phase of ML IDS. In this project used effective feature selection technique called Principal Component Analysis (PCA) finally, build artificial neural network model which classifies normal class label verses attack class label. Traffic classification utilizing flow measurement enables operators to perform essential network management. 
Furthermore, Self Learning Network Traffic Classification uses an iterative learning approach which will boost its ability to cope with new protocols and applications. Unlike state-of-art classifiers, the biggest advantage of Self Learning Network Traffic Classification is its ability to discover new protocols and new attacks in an almost automated fashion.
